Hi everyone!
Today we will start a new section.
Section 11 sets.
Let's learn together more about sets.
Sets are used to store multiple items in a single variable.
It's written with a curly bracket like in this example.
Set items are unordered and changeable and do not allow duplicate values.
In order, it means that the item in a set do not have a defined order.
Set items can appear in different order every time you use them, and cannot be referred to by index
or queue.
Set items are unchangeable, meaning that we cannot change the item after the set has been created.
Once a set is created, you cannot change its items, but you can remove items and add new items.
A set cannot have two items with the same value.
Here for example, we have duplicate value.
Apple.
When I execute this code, Python will ignore one of these two value.
Note the values two and one are considered the same value in sets, and Python will ignore them.
The same for the values false and zero are considered the same values in sets, and when execute this
code, Python will ignore one of these two values.
To know the number of items, we use the function length.
Set items can be of any data type.
It can be a set of string.
It can be a set of number or a set of boolean.
Also, it's possible that the set contains different data types like.
In this example, sets contain a string, an integer, and also a boolean.
From Python's perspective, sets are defined as objects with the data type set.
When execute the function type for a set, we have the result class set.
It is also possible to use the set constructor to make a set like in this example.
Let's go to PyCharm and execute some code.
Section 11 sets the first.
Here in this example we create a set via the curly brackets.
Let's execute this code.
Note this first example.
The first example is to create a set with a curly brackets.
We have the result of the set like we see here.
There is no ordered.
We make apple at the first item, but when execute the code cherry becomes the first item.
Duplicates are not allowed.
In this example we have a duplicate value.
Apple when execute the code, Python will ignore one of these two values, and we have only three items
and one value for Apple.
True, and one is considered the same value.
When execute the code, one of them will be ignored by Python.
Here in this example, Python ignored the value one, and in the output we have only the value true.
The same false and zero is considered the same value.
When execute the code, Python will ignore one of these two value.
He ignore the value zero.
To get the length of a set, we use the function length.
The result it will be three in this example.
Next set items.
It can be a different data types.
It can be a set of a string, a set of integer, a set of boolean.
And also it can contain string, integer, boolean.
At the same time, when we execute the function type to set, we will have a result class set.
We can create a set from the constructor set.
And this is a set created by the constructor set.
And that's it for this video.
In the upcoming video, we will learn more about access to the set Add element to set remove from sets
and loop through sets.
How to join sets.